     The options are as follows:

     -4      Forces ssh to use IPv4 addresses only.

     -6      Forces ssh to use IPv6 addresses only.

     -A      Enables forwarding of connections from an authentication agent
             such as ssh-agent(1).  This can also be specified on a per-host
             basis in a configuration file.

             Agent forwarding should be enabled with caution.  Users with the
             ability to bypass file permissions on the remote host (for the
             agent's UNIX-domain socket) can access the local agent through
             the forwarded connection.  An attacker cannot obtain key material
             from the agent, however they can perform operations on the keys
             that enable them to authenticate using the identities loaded into
             the agent.  A safer alternative may be to use a jump host (see
             -J).

     -a      Disables forwarding of the authentication agent connection.

     -c cipher_spec
             Selects the cipher specification for encrypting the session.
             cipher_spec is a comma-separated list of ciphers listed in order
             of preference.  See the Ciphers keyword in ssh_config(5) for more
             information.

     -E log_file
             Append debug logs to log_file instead of standard error.

     -e escape_char
             Sets the escape character for sessions with a pty (default: ‘~’).
             The escape character is only recognized at the beginning of a
             line.  The escape character followed by a dot (‘.’) closes the
             connection; followed by control-Z suspends the connection; and
             followed by itself sends the escape character once.  Setting the
             character to “none” disables any escapes and makes the session
             fully transparent.

     -F configfile
             Specifies an alternative per-user configuration file.  If a
             configuration file is given on the command line, the system-wide
             configuration file (/opt/homebrew/etc/ssh/ssh_config) will be
             ignored.  The default for the per-user configuration file is
             ~/.ssh/config.  If set to “none”, no configuration files will be
             read.

     -g      Allows remote hosts to connect to local forwarded ports.  If used
             on a multiplexed connection, then this option must be specified
             on the master process.

     -i identity_file
             Selects a file from which the identity (private key) for public
             key authentication is read.  You can also specify a public key
             file to use the corresponding private key that is loaded in
             ssh-agent(1) when the private key file is not present locally.
             The default is ~/.ssh/id_rsa, ~/.ssh/id_ecdsa,
             ~/.ssh/id_ecdsa_sk, ~/.ssh/id_ed25519, ~/.ssh/id_ed25519_sk and
             ~/.ssh/id_mldsa44_ed25519.  Identity files may also be specified
             on a per-host basis in the configuration file.  It is possible to
             have multiple -i options (and multiple identities specified in
             configuration files).  If no certificates have been explicitly
             specified by the CertificateFile directive, ssh will also try to
             load certificate information from the filename obtained by
             appending -cert.pub to identity filenames.

     -J destination
             Connect to the target host by first making an ssh connection to
             the jump host described by destination and then establishing a
             TCP forwarding to the ultimate destination from there.  Multiple
             jump hops may be specified separated by comma characters.  IPv6
             addresses can be specified by enclosing the address in square
             brackets.  This is a shortcut to specify a ProxyJump
             configuration directive.  Note that configuration directives
             supplied on the command-line generally apply to the destination
             host and not any specified jump hosts.  Use ~/.ssh/config to
             specify configuration for jump hosts.

     -L [bind_address:]port:host:hostport
     -L [bind_address:]port:remote_socket
     -L local_socket:host:hostport
     -L local_socket:remote_socket
             Specifies that connections to the given TCP port or Unix socket
             on the local (client) host are to be forwarded to the given host
             and port, or Unix socket, on the remote side.  This works by
             allocating a socket to listen to either a TCP port on the local
             side, optionally bound to the specified bind_address, or to a
             Unix socket.  Whenever a connection is made to the local port or
             socket, the connection is forwarded over the secure channel, and
             a connection is made to either host port hostport, or the Unix
             socket remote_socket, from the remote machine.

             Port forwardings can also be specified in the configuration file.
             Only the superuser can forward privileged ports.  IPv6 addresses
             can be specified by enclosing the address in square brackets.

             By default, the local port is bound in accordance with the
             GatewayPorts setting.  However, an explicit bind_address may be
             used to bind the connection to a specific address.  The
             bind_address of “localhost” indicates that the listening port be
             bound for local use only, while an empty address or ‘*’ indicates
             that the port should be available from all interfaces.

     -l login_name
             Specifies the user to log in as on the remote machine.  This also
             may be specified on a per-host basis in the configuration file.

     -m mac_spec
             A comma-separated list of MAC (message authentication code)
             algorithms, specified in order of preference.  See the MACs
             keyword in ssh_config(5) for more information.

     -N      Do not execute a remote command.  This is useful for just
             forwarding ports.  Refer to the description of SessionType in
             ssh_config(5) for details.

     -o option
             Can be used to give options in the format used in the
             configuration file.  This is useful for specifying options for
             which there is no separate command-line flag.  For full details
             of the options, and their values, see ssh_config(5).

     -p port
             Port to connect to on the remote host.  This can be specified on
             a per-host basis in the configuration file.

     -q      Quiet mode.  Causes most warning and diagnostic messages to be
             suppressed.

     -R [bind_address:]port:host:hostport
     -R [bind_address:]port:local_socket
     -R remote_socket:host:hostport
     -R remote_socket:local_socket
     -R [bind_address:]port
             Specifies that connections to the given TCP port or Unix socket
             on the remote (server) host are to be forwarded to the local
             side.

             This works by allocating a socket to listen to either a TCP port
             or to a Unix socket on the remote side.  Whenever a connection is
             made to this port or Unix socket, the connection is forwarded
             over the secure channel, and a connection is made from the local
             machine to either an explicit destination specified by host port
             hostport, or local_socket, or, if no explicit destination was
             specified, ssh will act as a SOCKS 4/5 proxy and forward
             connections to the destinations requested by the remote SOCKS
             client.

             Port forwardings can also be specified in the configuration file.
             Privileged ports can be forwarded only when logging in as root on
             the remote machine.  IPv6 addresses can be specified by enclosing
             the address in square brackets.

             By default, TCP listening sockets on the server will be bound to
             the loopback interface only.  This may be overridden by
             specifying a bind_address.  An empty bind_address, or the address
             ‘*’, indicates that the remote socket should listen on all
             interfaces.  Specifying a remote bind_address will only succeed
             if the server's GatewayPorts option is enabled (see
             sshd_config(5)).

             If the port argument is ‘0’, the listen port will be dynamically
             allocated on the server and reported to the client at run time.
             When used together with -O forward, the allocated port will be
             printed to the standard output.

     -T      Disable pseudo-terminal allocation.

     -t      Force pseudo-terminal allocation.  This can be used to execute
             arbitrary screen-based programs on a remote machine, which can be
             very useful, e.g. when implementing menu services.  Multiple -t
             options force tty allocation, even if ssh has no local tty.

     -v      Verbose mode.  Causes ssh to print debugging messages about its
             progress.  This is helpful in debugging connection,
             authentication, and configuration problems.  Multiple -v options
             increase the verbosity.  The maximum is 3.

     -W host:port
             Requests that standard input and output on the client be
             forwarded to host on port over the secure channel.  Implies -N,
             -T, ExitOnForwardFailure and ClearAllForwardings, though these
             can be overridden in the configuration file or using -o command
             line options.

     -X      Enables X11 forwarding.  This can also be specified on a per-host
             basis in a configuration file.

             X11 forwarding should be enabled with caution.  Users with the
             ability to bypass file permissions on the remote host (for the
             user's X authorization database) can access the local X11 display
             through the forwarded connection.  An attacker may then be able
             to perform activities such as keystroke monitoring.

             For this reason, X11 forwarding is subjected to X11 SECURITY
             extension restrictions by default.  Refer to the ssh -Y option
             and the ForwardX11Trusted directive in ssh_config(5) for more
             information.

     -x      Disables X11 forwarding.

     -Y      Enables trusted X11 forwarding.  Trusted X11 forwardings are not
             subjected to the X11 SECURITY extension controls.
